.Dd July 19, 2026
.Dt MUNINN 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm muninn
.Nd inspect HTTP and HTTPS traffic in a terminal
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl -insecure-upstream
.Op Fl -passthrough Ar host
.Op Fl -max-memory Ar size
.Op Fl -max-body Ar size
.Op Fl -max-headers Ar size
.Op Fl -max-transactions Ar count
.Op Fl -max-connections Ar count
.Nm
.Cm ca
.Brq Cm create | show | fingerprint
.Nm
.Op Fl hV
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a local, read-only HTTP/HTTPS forward proxy with an ncurses interface.
It listens on 127.0.0.1:13337, forwards traffic without pausing or modifying
it, and keeps a bounded transaction history in memory.
.Pp
HTTPS inspection uses a local certificate authority. The public CA
certificate must be trusted by the browser. The private key must remain local.
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl -insecure-upstream
Disable verification of certificates presented by upstream servers.
Use only for deliberately insecure development servers.
.It Fl -passthrough Ar host
Relay TLS for
.Ar host
without interception. A pattern such as
.Li *.example.com
matches subdomains but not the root domain. May be repeated.
.It Fl -max-memory Ar size
Set the total dynamic memory budget for captured HTTP data. Default: 8M.
.It Fl -max-body Ar size
Set the stored byte limit for each request or response body. Default: 64K.
.It Fl -max-headers Ar size
Set the stored byte limit for each header block. Default: 64K.
.It Fl -max-transactions Ar count
Set the maximum number of transactions. Default: 2048.
.It Fl -max-connections Ar count
Set the maximum number of connection records. Default: 512.
.It Fl h , Fl -help
Display usage information.
.It Fl V , Fl -version
Display the program version.
.El
.Pp
Sizes accept bytes or one binary suffix:
.Cm K , M ,
or
.Cm G .
.Sh INTERFACE
.Bl -tag -width PageDown
.It Ic Up , Down , j , k
Select a transaction.
.It Ic Left , Right , Tab
Select Request or Response.
.It Ic PageUp , PageDown , u , d
Scroll message details.
.It Ic g , G
Select the first or last visible transaction.
.It Ic /
Edit the search query. Press Enter or Escape to leave editing.
.It Ic c
Clear the active search query.
.It Ic C
Remove completed, interrupted, and failed transactions from memory.
.It Ic e
Switch between transaction history and operational events.
.It Ic q
Exit.
.El
.Sh SEARCH
Plain terms search method, destination, status, start-lines, headers, content
type, and stored raw bodies. Multiple terms use AND semantics.
.Pp
Structured filters are also available:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
method:POST
host:example.com
status:404
state:erro
.Ed
.Sh HTTP SUPPORT
.Nm
parses HTTP/1.x, including Content-Length, chunked transfer encoding,
informational responses, keep-alive, and close-delimited responses.
TLS ALPN is restricted to HTTP/1.1. HTTP/2 is not decoded. Protocol upgrades,
WebSockets, certificate pinning, and passthrough traffic remain opaque.
.Pp
gzip, deflate, and Brotli bodies are decoded only for display. Raw captured
bytes remain unchanged. Decoded output is limited to 256 KiB.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width muninn-ca-cert.pem
.It Pa muninn-ca-cert.pem
Public certificate imported into the browser.
.It Pa muninn-ca-key.pem
Private CA key. Keep local with mode 0600 and never import or share it.
.El
.Sh SECURITY
Requests may contain credentials, cookies, and personal data. History remains
in process memory until cleared or the program exits. Do not run
.Nm
as root. Remove browser trust in the local CA after testing.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Vitor
